>> Shirley Wu: And I think for today,
we probably only have the time to
explore one or two of these questions.
But keeping these in mind,
I want to then start talking about
how do we explore that data quickly
to come to some sort of answers?
Or to either validate or debunk some
of these questions and hypotheses.
And so what I want to talk
about is some basic chart
types to help you with
the data exploration.
And so I think I have just four in
here that I've asked around and
seeing what charts help with
the basic data exploration.
So a bar chart is one of those really
common, really easy ones that are quick.
So bar charts are really good for
categorical
comparisons where the domain is
categorical and the range is quantitative.
So in this particular example,
it's the movie genres, and
then the number of movies
that fall into those genres.
Histograms are really great for
if you want to look up
a distribution of something.
So if the domain is, for
where the domain is quantitative,
and you want to bucket those
records into these bins.
So the example I like to give
is if you have movies and
their meta-scores that we
were talking about earlier.
So if you want to put them into
every ten points or every 10% or
something, and then the range
is the frequency, the number of
movies that fall into those bins.
>> Shirley Wu: Scatter
plots are really great for correlations.
So all of the versus that we were talking
about like this meta-score versus this
IMDB rating versus etc, that's really
great to test out with correlation.
So correlations is great for
when you have two attributes, and
you want to see the relationship
between their quantitative
values.
>> Shirley Wu: And then for the temporal,
it's line charts, line charts are really
great for looking for temporal trends.
And so the domain for that is temporal and
the range is quantitative.
>> Shirley Wu: And so
those are kind of the four that I hear
people talk about a lot in terms of just
kind of understanding the data,
really quickly understanding the data.
And for us today to explore the data,
I want to use something
called Vega-Lite,
which is out of the, I think UW,
I'm gonna get this wrong, the UW,
>> Shirley Wu: I
call it the Jeff Heer lab.
[LAUGH]
>> Shirley Wu: So
he runs the Interactive Data Lab.
And Jeff Heer is actually
the professor who was overseeing
Mike Bostock when he was working
on an earlier version with D3.
And then now Jeff Heer leads
this Interactive Data Lab, and
one of the things that they do is Vega and
Vega-Lite.
And they call it a visualization
of grammar, I think,
a grammar of interactive graphics.
And so this is just a really quick way
of being able to compose visualizations.
And the way that you can do it is
you just give it a data source,
you tell it what each
mark is supposed to be.
So it is a tick,
is it a bar, is it a point,
is it a line, how is the data represented?
And then you tell it what encodings
each of those marks have, so
that could be x, y, color, etc.
And for Vega-Lite, for
each encoding you need to give it a type.
So that data type we were talking
about earlier, is it qualitative,
is it temporal is it, instead of
categorical they call it nominal.
And so that's why I talked a lot about
data types earlier and the field.
And the field is basically the attribute,
the name of that attribute
in your data object.
So those are the things that we
need to draw graphs with Vega-Lite.